---
layout: page
title: "P1: Energy Consumption Predictive Model"
permalink: /projects/energy-consumption-predictive-model/
---

# P1: Energy Consumption Predictive Model

In today’s world, energy sustainability has long been an important topic of discussion as it directly impacts the health of our planet and the quality of life for current and future generations. Therefore, optimizing and conserving energy consumption has been globally prioritized as an essential goal in combating climate change, preserving natural resources, and encouraging people to care for the environment for a more sustainable future. One way to contribute and support sustainability is by making changes in our own homes. For instance, reducing energy usage by turning off lights and appliances when not in use can make a difference in conserving resources and protecting the environment. Taking these concerns into consideration, our project’s objective is to address them using data analysis and data science methodologies.

The core of our project revolves around two fundamental research questions:
1. What are the key indicators or factors influencing energy consumption? 
2. Can we accurately predict future energy consumption in buildings using historical usage data?

## File Location
This project consists of three deliverables. The links to each deliverable are as below:
- [Report](https://github.com/josephhchoi/data-portfolio/blob/main/Data%20Science%20Projects/P1%20-%20Energy%20Consumption%20Predictive%20Model/01.%20Report%20-%20P1.pdf)
- [Presentation](https://github.com/josephhchoi/data-portfolio/blob/main/Data%20Science%20Projects/P1%20-%20Energy%20Consumption%20Predictive%20Model/03.%20Presentation%20-%20P1.pdf)
- [Jupyter Notebook Code](https://github.com/josephhchoi/data-portfolio/blob/main/Data%20Science%20Projects/P1%20-%20Energy%20Consumption%20Predictive%20Model/04.%20Jupyter%20Notebook%20Code%20-%20P1.ipynb)
