---
layout: page
title: "P2: Data Salary Predictive Model"
permalink: /projects/data-salary-predictive-model/
---

# P2: Data Salary Predictive Model

In today’s rapidly evolving job market, staying informed about salary trends is essential, especially for professionals in the data science and analytics field. As new and advanced technology emerges and companies adapt to these changes, the demand for skilled data professionals continues to grow, often leading to higher salaries. Understanding these trends is vital for new graduates to make informed decisions about job opportunities and salary negotiations. It also allows them to set realistic salary expectations when applying to roles. Therefore, developing a good grasp of the dynamics that influence salaries in these fields is necessary for informed career planning.

All members of our team are in the final semester of our data science bachelor’s program. This project holds great significance to us as we’d like to gain a comprehensive understanding of salary trends in our field before entering the job market. With this in mind, we’d like to analyze salary trends using the most current data available for 2024. The dataset we are using is sourced from ai-jobs.net, providing detailed information on salary distribution globally. Please note that our project will focus primarily on salaries in the U.S., given its relevance to our future career prospects and job search efforts.

The core of our project revolves around two fundamental research questions:
1. What are the key factors dictating salary levels in data-related positions?
2. Can we construct a reliable predictive model that forecasts salaries using historical data?

## File Location
This project consists of three deliverables. The links to each deliverable are as below:
- [Report](https://github.com/josephhchoi/data-portfolio/blob/main/Data%20Science%20Projects/P2%20-%20Data%20Salary%20Predictive%20Model/01.%20Report%20-%20P2.pdf)
- [Presentation](https://github.com/josephhchoi/data-portfolio/blob/main/Data%20Science%20Projects/P2%20-%20Data%20Salary%20Predictive%20Model/03.%20Presentation%20-%20P2.pdf)
- [Jupyter Notebook Code](https://github.com/josephhchoi/data-portfolio/blob/main/Data%20Science%20Projects/P2%20-%20Data%20Salary%20Predictive%20Model/04.%20Jupyter%20Notebook%20Code%20-%20P2.ipynb)
